meaning
if not you
then who
because you are unique an individual
with a unique set of problems and your
eyes have
you have unique background knowledge of
the world
unlike each and every wildebeest or lion
who has the same one or two goals to
survive long enough to reproduce
you can do more than this sure surviving
and reproducing are something but you as
a person are something more cosmic a
cosmic catalyst you can be a genuine
agent for change in the world a thing in
our universe which can cause whole
social movements or tectonic shifts
metaphoric or literal and in principle
be the cause of the movements of whole
planets
one day someone may have to if say a
stray planet comes wandering into our
solar system rogue planets are actually
a thing look it up but deflecting
planets is not impossible no physical
law stands in our way it's just a matter
of knowing how
we should feel that this is no accident
that only we can do this so far as we
know
but the idea our capacity to do this our
existence itself is just all one huge
accident is a bad explanation why did
all accidents all lead up to this
accident that is people and their
capacity to generate knowledge with the
capacity to alter cosmic events
no reason that's a bad explanation too
it could be that none of it means
anything or it does mean something
precisely because we exist to give it
meaning and it includes us we are
creators and knowledge generators we
build models in our minds of the rest of
physical reality making us a special
part of the cosmos that is self-similar
in each of us is a representation of the
rest of physical reality if you think
that is meaningless i don't know what to
tell you the world makes sense and we
can make sense of it the denial of this
is just a form of pessimism a retreat
from reason and rationality into a haze
of purely abstract but ultimately
dead-end dogmatism equivalent to well if
it's not science it does not matter only
the idea that there is no meaning or
that meaning must forever remain fuzzy
is dogmatism of another sort the stances
just share the property that some things
are pointless to try and make sense of
not rigorous macho testable right now
science don't bother at all too fuzzy oh
no the fuzziness is good it's a sign
that things are inherently beyond our
capacity to understand both of those
extremes are wrong meaning is to be
found in the middle in coming to
understand over time something like
purpose
how it is we interpret understand or
infer meaning we do not know but the
meaning of life is not to be
problem-free it is to move from problem
to better problem from fun enrichment
and enlightenment to more fun greater
enrichment and deeper enlightenment you
are a mind so what does that mean you
have power over mata it really is a case
of mind over mata does that matter it
does you can move mountains people can
literally move mountains or make them
out of mold hills why not you well you
might not want to but the mountain is
just an analogy the mountain might be in
your mind as a set of anti-rational
memes holding you back
moving mountains can be hard but it's
not impossible again no physical law is
standing in your way at the level of
yourself your own individuality you have
the capacity to solve your own personal
problems identify the memes holding you
back correct them replace them with
better ideas then move beyond moving
other mountains out there in the world
of objects your mind is there to find a
problem and fall in love with it or many
problems to find a problem as papa said
so you can work with great joy until the
end of your days and find a solution or
indeed just a better problem but even if
you do find a solution you will
understand in doing so that an entire
new family of problems are revealed to
you even more delightful than the last
problems need not cause suffering and
suffering is not inevitable it too is
just a parochial problem one day we can
solve suffering we are just a long way
from that now and that can be someone's
problem to solve perhaps yours and this
is why morality cannot reduce to the
minimization of suffering or the
maximization of well-being or happiness
because one day suffering can all be
eliminated in which case we will still
have a question before us of what to do
next and maximizing human well-being at
that point can involve many options
perhaps infinite all of which offer an
equal amount of maximum well-being of
course we have no way of measuring
well-being and what should be the unit
or device we use to measure well-being
is itself a moral question and what
should constitute well-being will remain
a moral question but people do discuss
these kinds of things
it gives their lives meaning they've
found a thing so to speak everyone has a
thing but not everyone knows what their
thing is right now what might give them
meaning a person is a creator
they might indeed become apparent by
creating life there can be few higher or
more meaningful callings than having and
raising children which is another way of
saying having and raising new sources of
cosmically significant creativity or a
person may instead choose to try to be
cosmically creative themselves or a
person may do both we are universal in
our capacity to create we can create
anything not prohibited by the laws of
physics we just need to know how meaning
for us is found in creativity in
creating new memories nurturing new
minds and making new memes
a sense of meaninglessness is synonymous
with a tragic psychological state it
could perhaps be the worst kind of
torture so meaning is important to find
and ignoring meaning by denying that
even considering meaning is meaningful
there's no recipe for tranquility for
the question will eventually arise what
do i do now
our minds make meaning out of the cosmos
but we are always minding misconceptions
correcting those misconceptions and
improving things for ourselves and
others can give us deep meaning there
are problems you have and you should
work towards finding solutions to them
it will give you meaning
after all if not you
then who